Let's talk a little bit
about component testing.
So, component testing is that kind of next
level up from the hierarchy from unit
testing, right?
Unit testing's a breez easy call function.
Did you get what you expected to get?
That works, and
component testing is the next
phase up from there, which is run code.
But for coding,
you can't just call as a function.
Write code that has one very
specific side effect, right?
Technically, I guess React functions or
React components are these days functions,
and I'm sure you could call them but
good luck testing on click handler.
You know what I mean, right?
For those kind of more important pieces,
could unit test a reaction component?
Yes.
Should you?
Probably not.
Somebody's gonna have an important
use case, and yes, then do it.
But for the most part, we're trying to
say, hey, I am willing to take on some
additional complexity, and what I would
like in return for that additional
complexity is something a little closer to
the real world usage of this component.
So yes, you could unit test it.
But you are being like, I would like
to very complicated do that React,
create element dance and all those things.
What we really wanna do is we wanna see,
hey, is this button disabled?
I did these DOM changes work
the way I wanted them to?
If it is make sure
the password certain length
before you enable the submit button,
right?
Generally speaking, you are going to
need to hand it to react dom.render.
That's not the name of it anymore.
Great route.
And actually be able to use these things.
Now, the true other end of the spectrum as
we saw before, was that kinda integration
end testing where build the thing,
fired up in a browser, click the buttons.
That is the truest version of that, but
you do have to download said browsers,
start upset browsers, build asset load
into page, not as fast as a unit test.
Component tests seek to get
you somewhere in the middle.
I am not,
I think if I was, for instance,
building a design system,
right, I think that I would
use a lot of component tests.
Even there are ways to integrate
your testing with storybooks,
stuff along those lines.
There's a lot of use cases if you
wanna get a lot of the functionality
of individual pieces, right?
Insofar that I work on open source project
where we are kind of eventually gonna have
an extensible UI and the ability to
have plugins and stuff like that,
we will probably take pieces of UI and
make it into a design system.
At which point like yeah, that was
lightning fast run through them all,
make total sense.
However, we should go through,
we should look at this.
You might decide yes, this hits
the value prop here is amazing for
the things that I'm working on.
Awesome.
I have worked on applications
where our component testing was,
cuz we had a lot of that Cypress tests and
unit test coverage and
the value add just wasn't there, right?
The goal here is as we think
about these enterprise UI apps or
development is we have an arsenal
of tools that is useful for
the various ways in which the apps
we work on are weird, right?
In this course,
we have left the this is what you should
do all the time area of the world.
Yeah, you should have tests, but
that's news flash for nobody.
Here's a set of very specialized tooling
that you can use to solve whatever
problem that you have, right?
Maybe the act of spinning up,
maybe you're inside of a much larger
application, something,
something microfinance.
And even spinning it up in Cypress or
Playwright is like untenable.
Maybe you just have a really,
really, really complicated form and
having to spin up the entire app
with all of its dependencies and
mock out everything so that you can test
all the form validation and whether or
not certain things appear in certain
states is just not worth it for you.
And too much of a hassle, then
component testing is great, right, and
you should totally do it.
And if you have a thing where it's
very easy to spin up everything and
point a browser at it,
you might not use it.
Those are both really, really,
really reasonable takes,
and you have both at your disposal.